docs(tutorial): umami (#565)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploy-umami-on-serverless-containers/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to deploy umami web analytics on Serverless Containers
  description: In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy umami web analytics on Serverless Containers.
content:
  h1: How to  deploy umami web analytics on Serverless Containers
  paragraph: In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy umami web analytics on Serverless Containers.
tags: umami serverless containers 
  - compute
  - serverless
dates:
  validation: 2022-04-21
  posted: 2021-04-21
---

> umami is a simple, easy to use, self-hosted web analytics solution. It provides a easier-to-use, open-source, and pprivacy-focused alternative paid solutions such as Google Analytics. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Umami is a simple, easy to use, self-hosted web analytics solution. It provides an easy-to-use, open-source, and privacy-focused alternative to paid solutions such as Google Analytics. 
```

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have a [Container Registry](/compute/container-registry/quickstart/)
- You have a [Managed Database for PostgreSQL](/storage/database/quickstart/)
- You have Docker installed on your local computer
- You have created an API token
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)

</Message>

## Preparating the Database

1. Create a [database user](/storage/database/how-to/add-users/) and [grant permissions](/database/how-to/manage-permissions/) to the PostgreSQL database you want to use for umami. 

2. Clone the umami project locally and enter the project's directory: 
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/mikecao/umami.git
    cd umami
    ```

3. Install the required tables from the script shipped with umami: 
    ```md
    psql -h <postgresql-ip>:<port> -U username -d databasename -f sql/schema.postgresql.sql
    ```

## Preparating the Container Registry

1. Sign in to your namespace in your terminal:
    ```
    docker login rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/<umami-namespace> -u nologin -p $SCW_SECRET_TOKEN

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```

```

    <Message type="important">

    In order to run this example, you must first create a Secret Token from the credentials page, and replace the expression `$SCW_SECRET_TOKEN` with the created secret.

    </Message>

2. Download the umami Docker container on your local machine: 
    ```
    docker pull ghcr.io/mikecao/umami:postgresql-latest
    ```
3. Tag the local container 
    ```
    docker tag ghcr.io/mikecao/umami:postgresql-latest rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/<umami-namespace>/umami:postgresql-latest
    ```
4. Push the local container to your Container Registry namespace:
    ```
    docker push rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/<umami-namespace>/umami:postgresql-latest
    ```

5. Click the **Namespace Settings** tab in the **Container Registry** section of the Scaleway console and make sure your namespace privacy policy is set to **Public**. 
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-umami-namespace-public.webp" alt="" />

## Deploying the Serverless Container

> 1. Select the Serverless Containers namespace you want to use to deploy the application from the **Serverless Containers** section in the Scaleway console. If you do not have a Serverless Containers namespace yet, click **+ Create a namespace** to create a new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the namespace you want to use to deploy the application in the **Serverless Containers** section of the Scaleway console. If you do not have a Serverless Containers namespace yet, click **+ Create a namespace** to create a new one.
```

    <Lightbox src="scalway-serverless-containers-namesp-list.webp" alt="" />

2. Click **+ Deploy a Container**. The container deployment wizard displays.

3. Choose the namespace you pushed the image to and select the `umami:postgresql-latest` image. Set the value for the port to `3000`.

> 2. Enter a name for your container. Optionally you can enter a container description. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter a name for your container. Optionally, you can enter a container description. 
```

> 3. Select the resources you want to allocate to the container. The resouces to allocate are depending on the intended load of your application. For the sake of this tutorial choose **128 MB - 70 mCPU**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the resources you want to allocate to the container. The resources to allocate depend on the intended load of your application. In this tutorial we use **128 MB - 70 mCPU**.
```

4. Configure the minimum and maximum values to autoscale the number of available instances for your container. 

7. Set the Secrets. Secrets are an extra-secure type of environment variables which are injected into your container and stored securely:

>     <Lightbox src="scaleway-serverless-secrets.webp" alt="" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-serverless-secrets.webp" alt="" />

```

    Click **+ Add a new secret** to add a secret. Configure the following two secrets:
    * `DATABASE_URL`: The URL of your PostgreSQL database in the format: `postgres://<db-user>:<db-password>@<postgresql-ip>:<port>/<db-name>?sslmode=require` 
    * `HASH_SALT`: A random hash. To generate it, run `openssl rand -hex 32` in your terminal and post the output in the form.

8. Verify that the container privacy policy is set to **Public**.

9. Click **Deploy a Container**.

## Accessing the umami dashboard

1. Click the **Container Settings** tab, to display container information. 

> 2. Copy the URL displayed at **Container Endpoint** and paste in in a web browser. The umami login screen displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy the URL displayed for **Container Endpoint** and paste in in a web browser. The umami login screen displays.
```

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-container-information.webp" alt="" />

3. Log in to the umami interface using the following credentials:
    * User: `admin`
    * Password: `umami`

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-umami-dashboard.webp" alt="" />

    The umami dashboard displays and you can add websites to monitor. For more information about umami refer to the [official documentation](https://umami.is/docs/).

## Customizing the endpoint name (otionally)

> Your Serverless Functions comes with a default entpoint name. You can customize this to a name of your choice using the **Endpoints** feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Serverless Functions come with a default endpoint name. You can customize this to a name of your choice using the **Endpoints** feature.
```

> 1. Click the **Entpoints** tab. The endpoint information displays. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Endpoints** tab. The endpoint information displays. 
```

2. Click **+ Add new Endpoints**. A pop up displays. 

3. Enter the name of your endpoint. You can use any domain or subdomain that you own. Click **Add Endpoint** to validate.

>     <Lightbox src="scaleway-serverless-endpoint.webp" alt="" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-serverless-endpoint.webp" alt="" />

```

The tool collects only the metrics relevant to you and displays everything on a single page.

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have created a [Container Registry](/compute/container-registry/quickstart/)
- You have created a [Managed Database for PostgreSQL](/storage/database/quickstart/)
- You have [Docker](/tutorials/install-docker-ubuntu-bionic/) installed on your local computer
- You have generated an [API key](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key)
- You have [configured your SSH key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)

</Message>

## Preparating the Database

1. Create a [database user](/storage/database/how-to/add-users/) and [grant permissions](/database/how-to/manage-permissions/) to the PostgreSQL database you want to use for umami. 

2. Clone the umami project locally and enter the project's directory: 
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/mikecao/umami.git
    cd umami
    ```

3. Install the required tables from the script shipped with umami: 
    ```md
    psql -h <postgresql-ip>:<port> -U username -d databasename -f sql/schema.postgresql.sql
    ```

> ## Preparating the Container Registry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Preparing the Container Registry
```

1. Sign in to your namespace in your terminal:
    ```
    docker login rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/<umami-namespace> -u nologin -p $SCW_SECRET_TOKEN
    ```
    <Message type="important">

>     In order to run this example, you must first create a Secret Token from the credentials page, and replace the expression `$SCW_SECRET_TOKEN` with the created secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In order to run this example, you must first create a secret token from the credentials page, and replace the expression `$SCW_SECRET_TOKEN` with the created token.
```

    </Message>

2. Download the umami Docker container on your local machine: 
    ```
    docker pull ghcr.io/mikecao/umami:postgresql-latest
    ```
3. Tag the local container 
    ```
    docker tag ghcr.io/mikecao/umami:postgresql-latest rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/<umami-namespace>/umami:postgresql-latest
    ```
4. Push the local container to your Container Registry namespace:
    ```
    docker push rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/<umami-namespace>/umami:postgresql-latest
    ```

> 

Reviewer 2: Extra line break?

5. Click the **Namespace Settings** tab in the **Container Registry** section of the Scaleway console and make sure your namespace privacy policy is set to **Public**. 
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-umami-namespace-public.webp" alt="" />

## Deploying the Serverless Container

1. Select the Serverless Containers namespace you want to use to deploy the application from the **Serverless Containers** section in the Scaleway console. If you do not have a Serverless Containers namespace yet, click **+ Create a namespace** to create a new one.
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-serverless-containers-namesp-list.webp" alt="" />

2. Click **+ Deploy a Container**. The container deployment wizard displays.

3. Choose the namespace you pushed the image to and select the `umami:postgresql-latest` image. Set the value for the port to `3000`.

> 2. Enter a name for your container. Optionally you can enter a container description. 

Reviewer 2: Steps go from 3 to 2

3. Select the resources you want to allocate to the container. The resouces to allocate are depending on the intended load of your application. For the sake of this tutorial choose **128 MB - 70 mCPU**.

4. Configure the minimum and maximum values to autoscale the number of available instances for your container. 

> 7. Set the Secrets. Secrets are an extra-secure type of environment variables which are injected into your container and stored securely:

Reviewer 2: Steps go from 4 to 7

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-serverless-secrets.webp" alt="" />

    Click **+ Add a new secret** to add a secret. Configure the following two secrets:
    * `DATABASE_URL`: The URL of your PostgreSQL database in the format:

       ```md
       postgres://<db-user>:<db-password>@<postgresql-ip>:<port>/<db-name>?sslmode=require
       ```
    * `HASH_SALT`: A random hash. To generate it, run `openssl rand -hex 32` in your terminal and post the output in the form.

8. Verify that the container privacy policy is set to **Public**.

9. Click **Deploy a Container**.

## Accessing the umami dashboard

1. Click the **Container Settings** tab, to display container information. 

> 2. Copy the URL displayed at **Container Endpoint** and paste in in a web browser. The umami login screen displays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Copy the URL displayed for **Container Endpoint** and paste it into a web browser. The umami login screen displays.
```
